[main blog] Reducing support for 32-bit Apple targets (#487)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: posts/2019-12-30-reducing-support-for-32-bit-apple-targets.md

---
layout: post
title: "Reducing support for 32-bit Apple targets"
author: Pietro Albini
---

> The Rust team is sad to announce that Rust 1.41.0 (to be released on January

Reviewer: I don't think we need to make an emotional statement. Either of these would be fine, I think:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Rust team regrets to announce that Rust 1.41.0 (to be released on January
```

Reviewer: Or, with no "padding" at all:

```suggestion
Rust 1.41.0 (to be released on January
```

30th, 2020) will be the last release with the current level of support for
32-bit Apple targets. Starting from Rust 1.42.0, those targets will be demoted
to Tier 3.

The decision was made on [RFC 2837], and was accepted by the compiler and
release teams. This post explains what the change means, why we did it, and how
your project is affected.

[RFC 2837]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/2837

# What’s a support tier?

The Rust compiler can build code targeting [a lot of
platforms][platform-support] (also called “targets”), but the team doesn't have
the resources or manpower to provide the same level of support and testing for
each of them.
To make our commitments clear, we follow a tiered support policy (currently
being formalized and revised in [RFC 2803]), explaining what we guarantee:

- Tier 1 targets can be downloaded through rustup and are fully tested
  during the project’s automated builds. A bug or a regression affecting one of
  these targets is usually prioritized more than bugs only affecting platforms
  in other tiers.

- Tier 2 targets can also be downloaded through rustup, but our
  automated builds don’t execute the test suite for them. While we guarantee a

>   compiler build will be available, we don’t ensure it will actually work

Reviewer 2: nit: some tier 2 targets are std only and we do not guarantee a compiler build

Author: Clarified this.

  without bugs (or even work at all).

- Tier 3 targets are not available for download through rustup, and are
  ignored during our automated builds. You can still build their standard
  library for cross-compiling (or the full compiler in some cases) from source

>   on your own, but you might encounter build errors, bugs, or missing features.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if we need a full summary of how support tiers work in this announcement. I think the links to the current support tiers and RFC 2803, together with a simple statement that 32-bit Apple targets will no longer be exercised in any way via the Rust project's CI infrastructure, would be sufficient.

Author: As this affects both tier 1 and tier 2 platforms going into tier 3, I think having a brief description of what those tiers mean in the blog post is useful.
